---
layout: post
title:  "Jobs"
categories: articles 
---
## Job Responsiblity

1. **Don't screw up production!!!**

    1. Never deploy production if you don't reach the team consent with an offical [CM][CM]. Don't try to be a hero, instead, you are just an arrogant fool. All team members share the responsbility. You will take all the blame by your own if you screw it up without a [CM][CM].
    1. Never touch production if there isn't a good SOP to follow. A production is not operational ready if no good SOP is available. You will make mistake if you try to improvise. Just slow down. It always can be deferred or postponed since a production without a good SOP isn't an important or urgent one. Bias for action is good, but screw it up is stupid. 
    1. Don't trust yourself. You are careless and have made lots of mistakes in past! Always follow two-person rule. 
    1. Have enough automated gruadrails, tests and alarms. Write testing code and SOPs are a critical part of work for a serious production. Don't come to the idea that writing code is more important than the others. 
    1. In case you screwed up production, always rollback first provided that you already have a good SOP on how to rollback and you have a [CM][CM] for your rollback since rollback is also a production change. Don't try to fix on top of error. It's just risky, slow and introduces more issues.

1. **Maintenance**, which includes version upgrade, security vulnerability fix,
   deprecation, cost saving, oncall etc.

    1. Tricks to make maintenance a bit of easy: good sops, clear separation of
       ownership, keep it simple, infrastructure as code etc. 


[CM]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_management
